concept_notifications_email.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept_notifications_email.html
summary: Adding email addresses for notifications.
keywords: email, notifications, signature, recipient, list, subscription
---

= Configuring Email Notifications
:toc: macro
:hardbreaks:
:toclevels: 1
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can configure an email list for subscription-related notifications, as well as a global email list of recipients for notification of performance policy threshold violations. 
//You can also configure a global email list of recipients for monitor-related notifications.

To configure notification email recipient settings, go to the *Admin > Notifications* page and select the _Email_ tab.

[.thumb]
image:Notifications_email_list.png[Email Notifications]

== Subscription Notification Recipients

To configure recipients for subscription-related event notifications, go to the "Subscription Notification Recipients" section. 
You can choose to have email notifications sent for subscription-related events to any or all of the following recipients:

* All Account Owners
* All _Monitor & Optimize_ Administrators
* Additional Email Addresses that you specify

The following are examples of the types of notifications that might be sent, and user actions you can take.

|===
|*Notification:*|*User Action:*
|Trial or subscription has been updated|Review subscription details on the link:concept_subscribing_to_cloud_insights.html[Subscription] page
|Subscription will expire in 90 days
Subscription will expire in 30 days|No action needed if “Auto Renewal” is enabled
Contact link:https://www.netapp.com/us/forms/sales-inquiry/cloud-insights-sales-inquiries.aspx[NetApp sales] to renew the subscription
|Trial ends in 2 days|Renew trial from the link:concept_subscribing_to_cloud_insights.html[Subscription] page. You can renew a trial one time.
Contact link:https://www.netapp.com/us/forms/sales-inquiry/cloud-insights-sales-inquiries.aspx[NetApp sales] to purchase a subscription
|Trial or subscription has expired
Account will stop collecting data in 48 hours 
Account will be deleted after 48 hours|Contact link:https://www.netapp.com/us/forms/sales-inquiry/cloud-insights-sales-inquiries.aspx[NetApp sales] to purchase a subscription
|===


== Global Recipient List for Alerts

Email notifications of alerts are sent to the alert recipient list for every action on the alert. You can choose to send alert notifications to a global recipient list.

To configure global alert recipients, choose the desired recipients in the *Global Monitor Notification Recipients* section.

You can always override the global recipients list for an individual monitor when creating or modifying the monitor.

NOTE: ONTAP Data Collector notifications take precedence over any specific Monitor notifications that are relevant to the cluster/data collector. The recipient list you set for the Data Collector itself will receive the data collector alerts. If there are no active data collector alerts, then monitor-generated alerts will be sent to specific monitor recipients.

//image:MonitorTeamNotifications.png[Override Global Notifications]



== Editing Notifications for ONTAP

You can modify notifications for ONTAP clusters by selecting _Edit Notifications_ from the upper-right drop-down on a Storage landing page.

image:EditONTAPNotifications.png[ONTAP Edit Notifications]

From here, you can set notifications for Critical, Warning, Informational, and/or Resolved alerts. Each scenario can notify the Global Recipient list or other recipients you choose.

image:EditONTAPNotifications_MultipleScenarios.png[ONTAP Notifications for different scenarios]

Commit message:

add whitelist note to notifications page

concept_notifications_email.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept_notifications_email.html
summary: Adding email addresses for notifications.
keywords: email, notifications, signature, recipient, list, subscription
---

= Configuring Email Notifications
:toc: macro
:hardbreaks:
:toclevels: 1
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can configure an email list for subscription-related notifications, as well as a global email list of recipients for notification of performance policy threshold violations. 
//You can also configure a global email list of recipients for monitor-related notifications.

To configure notification email recipient settings, go to the *Admin > Notifications* page and select the _Email_ tab.

[.thumb]
image:Notifications_email_list.png[Email Notifications]

== Subscription Notification Recipients

To configure recipients for subscription-related event notifications, go to the "Subscription Notification Recipients" section. 
You can choose to have email notifications sent for subscription-related events to any or all of the following recipients:

* All Account Owners
* All _Monitor & Optimize_ Administrators
* Additional Email Addresses that you specify

The following are examples of the types of notifications that might be sent, and user actions you can take.

|===
|*Notification:*|*User Action:*
|Trial or subscription has been updated|Review subscription details on the link:concept_subscribing_to_cloud_insights.html[Subscription] page
|Subscription will expire in 90 days
Subscription will expire in 30 days|No action needed if “Auto Renewal” is enabled
Contact link:https://www.netapp.com/us/forms/sales-inquiry/cloud-insights-sales-inquiries.aspx[NetApp sales] to renew the subscription
|Trial ends in 2 days|Renew trial from the link:concept_subscribing_to_cloud_insights.html[Subscription] page. You can renew a trial one time.
Contact link:https://www.netapp.com/us/forms/sales-inquiry/cloud-insights-sales-inquiries.aspx[NetApp sales] to purchase a subscription
|Trial or subscription has expired
Account will stop collecting data in 48 hours 
Account will be deleted after 48 hours|Contact link:https://www.netapp.com/us/forms/sales-inquiry/cloud-insights-sales-inquiries.aspx[NetApp sales] to purchase a subscription
|===


[NOTE]
====
To ensure your recipients receive notifications from Data Infrastructure Insights, add the following email addresses to  any "allow" lists:

* \accounts@service.cloudinsights.netapp.com
* \DoNotReply@cloudinsights.netapp.com
====

== Global Recipient List for Alerts

Email notifications of alerts are sent to the alert recipient list for every action on the alert. You can choose to send alert notifications to a global recipient list.

To configure global alert recipients, choose the desired recipients in the *Global Monitor Notification Recipients* section.

You can always override the global recipients list for an individual monitor when creating or modifying the monitor.

NOTE: ONTAP Data Collector notifications take precedence over any specific Monitor notifications that are relevant to the cluster/data collector. The recipient list you set for the Data Collector itself will receive the data collector alerts. If there are no active data collector alerts, then monitor-generated alerts will be sent to specific monitor recipients.

//image:MonitorTeamNotifications.png[Override Global Notifications]



== Editing Notifications for ONTAP

You can modify notifications for ONTAP clusters by selecting _Edit Notifications_ from the upper-right drop-down on a Storage landing page.

image:EditONTAPNotifications.png[ONTAP Edit Notifications]

From here, you can set notifications for Critical, Warning, Informational, and/or Resolved alerts. Each scenario can notify the Global Recipient list or other recipients you choose.

image:EditONTAPNotifications_MultipleScenarios.png[ONTAP Notifications for different scenarios]
