concept_feature_tutorials.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept_feature_tutorials.html
summary: Data Infrastructure Insights has tutorials to show you how to perform many tasks.
keywords: onboarding, getting started, video, tutorial, resolution, dashboard, query, troubleshooting
---
= Feature Tutorials
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Data Infrastructure Insights is loaded with useful features that enable you to quickly and easily troubleshoot issues, and provide insights into your corporate environment. Find data easily with powerful queries, visualize data in dashboards, and send email alerts for data thresholds you set. 

== Checklist and Video Tutorials

The *Startup Checklist* displayed on your Data Infrastructure Insights tenant contains a list of several useful tasks and concepts. Selecting an item in the checklist takes you to the appropriate Data Infrastructure Insights page for that concept. For example, clicking on the _Create a Dashboard_ item opens the Data Infrastructure Insights *Dashboards* page.

image:OnboardingChecklist.png[Tutorial Checklist Progress]

At the top of the page is a link to a video tutorial showing how to create a dashboard. You can view the video as many times as you like until you click the _Got it! Don't Show This Again_ link for that video. The video is available every time you go to the Dashboards page, until you dismiss it.

image:Startup-DashboardWatchVideo.png[Watch Video Link]

After watching the video at least once, the _Create a Dashboard_ item in the checklist is checked off, indicating that you have completed the tutorial. You can then proceed to the next tutorial.

NOTE: You can view the tutorials in any order you like, as many times as you like until dismissed. 

=== Dismissing the Checklist

The Startup Checklist is displayed until you click the _Don't Show This Again_ link at the bottom of the checklist. Even after dismissing the checklist, the tutorials are still available on each appropriate Data Infrastructure Insights page until you dismiss each one from the message header bar. 

== Video Tutorials

Watch the following videos to learn more.

link:https://media.netapp.com/video-detail/248621bd-6619-5dc8-9718-5d78d0fd21da/turn-raw-data-into-actionable-insights[Turn raw data into actionable insights]

link:https://media.netapp.com/video-detail/5a293f3c-c655-5879-9133-1a32aaa140e8/create-powerful-dashboards-with-netapp[Create powerful dashboards with NetApp]

link:https://media.netapp.com/video-detail/0e62b784-8456-5ef7-8879-f0352135a0f1/simplified-troubleshooting-with-vm-analyzer[Simplified troubleshooting with VM Analyzer]

link:https://media.netapp.com/video-detail/d0530e0b-a222-52e7-92b1-dbeeee41b712/explore-and-analyze-with-queries-in-data-infrastructure-insights[Explore and analyze with queries in Data Infrastructure Insights]

link:https://media.netapp.com/video-detail/43497a8e-f648-56b7-9bc7-8d5d4274510f/proactive-infrastructure-monitoring-with-alerts-and-monitors[Proactive infrastructure monitoring with alerts and monitors]

Commit message:

add video links to tutorial page - wording

concept_feature_tutorials.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept_feature_tutorials.html
summary: Step-by-step video tutorials help you master Data Infrastructure Insights features like dashboards, queries, monitoring, and troubleshooting.
keywords: onboarding, getting started, video, tutorial, resolution, dashboard, query, troubleshooting
---
= Getting Started with Video Tutorials
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Learn Data Infrastructure Insights efficiently with our feature tutorials with step-by-step video guides and a progress checklist. Master essential skills like creating dashboards, building queries, setting up monitoring, and troubleshooting issues through hands-on tutorials designed to get you productive quickly. 

== Checklist and Video Tutorials

The *Startup Checklist* displayed on your Data Infrastructure Insights tenant contains a list of several useful tasks and concepts. Selecting an item in the checklist takes you to the appropriate Data Infrastructure Insights page for that concept. For example, clicking on the _Create a Dashboard_ item opens the Data Infrastructure Insights *Dashboards* page.

image:OnboardingChecklist.png[Tutorial Checklist Progress]

At the top of the page is a link to a video tutorial showing how to create a dashboard. You can view the video as many times as you like until you click the _Got it! Don't Show This Again_ link for that video. The video is available every time you go to the Dashboards page, until you dismiss it.

image:Startup-DashboardWatchVideo.png[Watch Video Link]

After watching the video at least once, the _Create a Dashboard_ item in the checklist is checked off, indicating that you have completed the tutorial. You can then proceed to the next tutorial.

NOTE: You can view the tutorials in any order you like, as many times as you like until dismissed. 

=== Dismissing the Checklist

The Startup Checklist is displayed until you click the _Don't Show This Again_ link at the bottom of the checklist. Even after dismissing the checklist, the tutorials are still available on each appropriate Data Infrastructure Insights page until you dismiss each one from the message header bar. 

== Video Tutorials

Watch the following videos to learn more.

link:https://media.netapp.com/video-detail/248621bd-6619-5dc8-9718-5d78d0fd21da/turn-raw-data-into-actionable-insights[Turn raw data into actionable insights]

link:https://media.netapp.com/video-detail/5a293f3c-c655-5879-9133-1a32aaa140e8/create-powerful-dashboards-with-netapp[Create powerful dashboards with NetApp]

link:https://media.netapp.com/video-detail/0e62b784-8456-5ef7-8879-f0352135a0f1/simplified-troubleshooting-with-vm-analyzer[Simplified troubleshooting with VM Analyzer]

link:https://media.netapp.com/video-detail/d0530e0b-a222-52e7-92b1-dbeeee41b712/explore-and-analyze-with-queries-in-data-infrastructure-insights[Explore and analyze with queries in Data Infrastructure Insights]

link:https://media.netapp.com/video-detail/43497a8e-f648-56b7-9bc7-8d5d4274510f/proactive-infrastructure-monitoring-with-alerts-and-monitors[Proactive infrastructure monitoring with alerts and monitors]
