cs_automated_response_policies.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: cs_automated_response_policies.html
keywords: alert, snapshot, ransomware, attack
summary: You can set automated response policies for potential attacks (such as ransomware) and/or activity warnings
---

= Automated Response Policies
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Response Policies trigger actions such as taking a snapshot or restricting user access in the event of an attack or abnormal user behavior. 


You can set policies on specific devices or all devices. To set a response policy, select *Admin > Automated Response Policies* and click the appropriate *+Policy* button. You can create policies for Attacks or for Warnings.

image:Automated_Response_Screenshot.png[Create Attack Policy]

You must save the policy with a unique name. 

To disable an automated response action (for example, Take Snapshot), simply un-check the action and save the policy.

When an alert is triggered against the specified devices (or all devices, if selected), the automated response policy takes a snapshot of your data. You can see snapshot status on the link:cs_alert_data.html#the-alert-details-page[Alert detail page].

See the link:cs_restrict_user_access.html[Restrict User Access] page for more details on restricting user access by IP.

You can modify or pause an Automated Response Policy by choosing the option in the policy's drop-down menu.

Workload Security will automatically delete snapshots once per day based on the Snapshot Purge settings. 

//image:AutomatedResponsePolicyList.png[Automated Response Policy Pause]
//image:CloudSecure_AutomatedResponsePolicies_WithSnapshotPurge.png[Automated Response Policy Settings]
image:CloudSecure_SnapshotPurgeSettings.png[Snapshot Purge Settings]

Commit message:

adding Workload Security Webhook notification documentation

cs_automated_response_policies.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: cs_automated_response_policies.html
keywords: alert, snapshot, ransomware, attack
summary: You can set automated response policies for potential attacks (such as ransomware) and/or activity warnings
---

= Automated Response Policies
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Response Policies trigger actions such as taking a snapshot or restricting user access in the event of an attack or abnormal user behavior. 


You can set policies on specific devices or all devices. To set a response policy, select *Admin > Automated Response Policies* and click the appropriate *+Policy* button. You can create policies for Attacks or for Warnings.

//image:Automated_Response_Screenshot.png[Create Attack Policy]
image:ws_add_attack_policy.png[Add an Attack Policy dialog showing webhook dropdown]

You must save the policy with a unique name. 

To disable an automated response action (for example, Take Snapshot), simply un-check the action and save the policy.

When an alert is triggered against the specified devices (or all devices, if selected), the automated response policy takes a snapshot of your data. You can see snapshot status on the link:cs_alert_data.html#the-alert-details-page[Alert detail page].

See the link:cs_restrict_user_access.html[Restrict User Access] page for more details on restricting user access by IP.

You can attach one or more webhooks to a policy to get notified when an alert is created and action is taken. It is recommended to add no more than 10 webhooks to a policy. If a policy is paused, webhook notifications will not be triggered. 

You can modify or pause an Automated Response Policy by choosing the option in the policy's drop-down menu.

Workload Security will automatically delete snapshots once per day based on the Snapshot Purge settings. 

image:CloudSecure_SnapshotPurgeSettings.png[Snapshot Purge Settings]
