data_collector_list.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: data_collector_list.html
summary: List of supported data collectors.
keywords: data collector, vendor, infrastructure, integration, service
---

= Data Infrastructure Insights Data Collector List
:hardbreaks:
:toclevels: 1
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Data Infrastructure Insights supports a variety of Data Collectors from many vendors and services. 

Data Collectors are categorized by these types:

* Infrastructure: Acquired from vendor devices such as storage arrays, switches, hypervisors, or backup devices.
* Service: Acquired from services such as Kubernetes or Docker. Also called _Integration_.

Alphabetical list of Data Collectors supported by Data Infrastructure Insights:

[cols="<,<", options="header"]
|===
<|Data Collector
<|Type

| link:task_dc_amazon_ec2.html[Amazon EC2 and EBS ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_aws_s3.html[AWS S3 as Storage] |Infrastrusture
| link:task_dc_na_amazon_fsx.html[Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP ]|Infrastructure
| link:task_config_telegraf_apache.html[Apache ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_ms_anf.html[Azure NetApp Files ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ms_azure.html[Azure VMs and VHD ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_brocade_bna.html[Brocade Network Advisor (BNA) ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_brocade_fc_switch.html[Brocade Fibre Channel Switches ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_brocade_rest.html[Brocade FOS REST ] | Infrastructure
//| link:task_dc_ceph_storage.html[Ceph Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_cisco_fc_switch.html[Cisco MDS Fabric Switches ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_consul.html[Consul ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_couchbase.html[Couchbase ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_couchdb.html[CouchDB ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_cohesity_smartfiles.html[Cohesity SmartFiles ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_datadomain.html[Dell EMC Data Domain ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_ecs.html[Dell EMC ECS ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_isilon.html[Dell EMC PowerScale (previously Isilon) ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_isilon_rest.html[Dell EMC Isilon / PowerScale REST]| Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_emc_powerstore.html[Dell EMC PowerStore]|Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_emc_recoverpoint.html[Dell EMC Recoverpoint ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_scaleio.html[Dell EMC ScaleIO/PowerFlex ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_unity.html[Dell EMC Unity ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_unisphere_rest.html[Dell EMC Unisphere REST] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_emc_vmax_powermax.html[Dell EMC VMAX/PowerMax Family of Devices ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_vnx_block.html[Dell EMC VNX Block Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_vnx_file.html[Dell EMC VNX File ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_vnx_unified.html[Dell EMC VNX Unified ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_vplex.html[Dell EMC VPLEX ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_xio.html[Dell EMC XtremIO ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_dell_xc_series.html[Dell XC Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_docker.html[Docker ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_elasticsearch.html[Elasticsearch ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_flink.html[Flink ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_fujitsu_eternus.html[Fujitsu ETERNUS DX ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_google_cloud.html[Google Compute and Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_hadoop.html[Hadoop ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_haproxy.html[HAProxy ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_hds_hcp.html[Hitachi Content Platform (HCP)] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_hds_commandsuite.html[Hitachi Vantara Command Suite ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_hds_nas.html[Hitachi Vantara NAS Platform ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_hds_ops_center.html[Hitachi Ops Center ] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_hpe_nimble.html[HP Enterprise Alletra 6000 (previously Nimble) Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_hp_3par.html[HP Enterprise Alletra 9000 / Primera (previously 3PAR) Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_hpe_commandview.html[HP Enterprise Command View ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_huawei_oceanstor.html[Huawei OceanStor and Dorado Devices ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_cleversafe.html[IBM Cleversafe ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_cs.html[IBM CS Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_powervm.html[IBM PowerVM ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_svc.html[IBM SAN Volume Controller (SVC) ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_ds.html[IBM System Storage DS8000 Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_xiv.html[IBM XIV and A9000 Storages ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_infinidat_infinibox.html[Infinidat InfiniBox ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_jvm.html[Java ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_kafka.html[Kafka ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_kapacitor.html[Kapacitor ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_kibana.html[Kibana ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_agent_k8s.html[Kubernetes ] |Service
| link:task_dc_lenovo.html[Lenovo HX Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_memcached.html[Memcached ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_ms_anf.html[Microsoft Azure NetApp Files ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ms_hyperv.html[Microsoft Hyper-V ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_mongodb.html[MongoDB ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_mysql.html[MySQL ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_na_cloud_volumes_ontap.html[NetApp Cloud Volumes ONTAP ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_cloud_volumes.html[NetApp Cloud Volumes Services for AWS ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_cloud_connection.html[NetApp Cloud Connection for ONTAP 9.9+ ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_7mode.html[NetApp Data ONTAP 7-Mode ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_eseries.html[NetApp E-Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_netapp_eseries_rest.html[NetApp E-Series REST ] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_na_amazon_fsx.html[Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_hci.html[NetApp HCI Virtual Center ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_cdot.html[NetApp ONTAP Data Management Software ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_ontap_rest.html[NetApp ONTAP REST collector ] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_na_ontap_all_san_array.html[NetApp ONTAP All-SAN Array (ASA) collector] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_na_cdot.html[NetApp ONTAP Select ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_solidfire.html[NetApp SolidFire All-Flash Array ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_storagegrid.html[NetApp StorageGRID ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_netstat.html[Netstat ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_nginx.html[Nginx ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_node.html[Node ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_nutanix.html[Nutanix NX Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_openstack.html[OpenStack ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_openzfs.html[OpenZFS ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_oracle_zfs.html[Oracle ZFS Storage Appliance ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_postgresql.html[PostgreSQL ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_puppetagent.html[Puppet Agent ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_pure_flasharray.html[Pure Storage FlashArray ] |Infrastructure 
//| link:task_dc_pure_flashblade.html[Pure Storage FlashBlade ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_redhat_virtualization.html[Red Hat Virtualization ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_redis.html[Redis ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_rethinkdb.html[RethinkDB ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_agent.html#rhel-and-centos[RHEL & CentOS ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_rubrik_cdm.html[Rubrik CDM Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_agent.html#ubuntu-and-debian[Ubuntu & Debian ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_vast_datastore.html[VAST DataStore] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_vmware.html[VMware vSphere ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_agent.html#windows[Windows ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_zookeeper.html[ZooKeeper ] |Service 
|===

Commit message:

remove openstack - no longer supported

data_collector_list.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: data_collector_list.html
summary: List of supported data collectors.
keywords: data collector, vendor, infrastructure, integration, service
---

= Data Infrastructure Insights Data Collector List
:hardbreaks:
:toclevels: 1
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/The alerting page redesign will also be ready by the of the month. Need to add it to what’s new as wellopens

[.lead]
Data Infrastructure Insights supports a variety of Data Collectors from many vendors and services. 

Data Collectors are categorized by these types:

* Infrastructure: Acquired from vendor devices such as storage arrays, switches, hypervisors, or backup devices.
* Service: Acquired from services such as Kubernetes or Docker. Also called _Integration_.

Alphabetical list of Data Collectors supported by Data Infrastructure Insights:

[cols="<,<", options="header"]
|===
<|Data Collector
<|Type

| link:task_dc_amazon_ec2.html[Amazon EC2 and EBS ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_aws_s3.html[AWS S3 as Storage] |Infrastrusture
| link:task_dc_na_amazon_fsx.html[Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP ]|Infrastructure
| link:task_config_telegraf_apache.html[Apache ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_ms_anf.html[Azure NetApp Files ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ms_azure.html[Azure VMs and VHD ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_brocade_bna.html[Brocade Network Advisor (BNA) ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_brocade_fc_switch.html[Brocade Fibre Channel Switches ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_brocade_rest.html[Brocade FOS REST ] | Infrastructure
//| link:task_dc_ceph_storage.html[Ceph Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_cisco_fc_switch.html[Cisco MDS Fabric Switches ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_consul.html[Consul ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_couchbase.html[Couchbase ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_couchdb.html[CouchDB ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_cohesity_smartfiles.html[Cohesity SmartFiles ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_datadomain.html[Dell EMC Data Domain ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_ecs.html[Dell EMC ECS ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_isilon.html[Dell EMC PowerScale (previously Isilon) ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_isilon_rest.html[Dell EMC Isilon / PowerScale REST]| Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_emc_powerstore.html[Dell EMC PowerStore]|Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_emc_recoverpoint.html[Dell EMC Recoverpoint ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_scaleio.html[Dell EMC ScaleIO/PowerFlex ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_unity.html[Dell EMC Unity ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_unisphere_rest.html[Dell EMC Unisphere REST] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_emc_vmax_powermax.html[Dell EMC VMAX/PowerMax Family of Devices ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_vnx_block.html[Dell EMC VNX Block Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_vnx_file.html[Dell EMC VNX File ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_vnx_unified.html[Dell EMC VNX Unified ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_vplex.html[Dell EMC VPLEX ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_emc_xio.html[Dell EMC XtremIO ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_dell_xc_series.html[Dell XC Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_docker.html[Docker ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_elasticsearch.html[Elasticsearch ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_flink.html[Flink ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_fujitsu_eternus.html[Fujitsu ETERNUS DX ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_google_cloud.html[Google Compute and Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_hadoop.html[Hadoop ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_haproxy.html[HAProxy ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_hds_hcp.html[Hitachi Content Platform (HCP)] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_hds_commandsuite.html[Hitachi Vantara Command Suite ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_hds_nas.html[Hitachi Vantara NAS Platform ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_hds_ops_center.html[Hitachi Ops Center ] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_hpe_nimble.html[HP Enterprise Alletra 6000 (previously Nimble) Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_hp_3par.html[HP Enterprise Alletra 9000 / Primera (previously 3PAR) Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_hpe_commandview.html[HP Enterprise Command View ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_huawei_oceanstor.html[Huawei OceanStor and Dorado Devices ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_cleversafe.html[IBM Cleversafe ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_cs.html[IBM CS Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_powervm.html[IBM PowerVM ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_svc.html[IBM SAN Volume Controller (SVC) ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_ds.html[IBM System Storage DS8000 Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ibm_xiv.html[IBM XIV and A9000 Storages ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_infinidat_infinibox.html[Infinidat InfiniBox ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_jvm.html[Java ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_kafka.html[Kafka ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_kapacitor.html[Kapacitor ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_kibana.html[Kibana ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_agent_k8s.html[Kubernetes ] |Service
| link:task_dc_lenovo.html[Lenovo HX Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_memcached.html[Memcached ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_ms_anf.html[Microsoft Azure NetApp Files ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_ms_hyperv.html[Microsoft Hyper-V ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_mongodb.html[MongoDB ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_mysql.html[MySQL ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_na_cloud_volumes_ontap.html[NetApp Cloud Volumes ONTAP ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_cloud_volumes.html[NetApp Cloud Volumes Services for AWS ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_cloud_connection.html[NetApp Cloud Connection for ONTAP 9.9+ ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_7mode.html[NetApp Data ONTAP 7-Mode ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_eseries.html[NetApp E-Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_netapp_eseries_rest.html[NetApp E-Series REST ] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_na_amazon_fsx.html[Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_hci.html[NetApp HCI Virtual Center ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_cdot.html[NetApp ONTAP Data Management Software ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_ontap_rest.html[NetApp ONTAP REST collector ] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_na_ontap_all_san_array.html[NetApp ONTAP All-SAN Array (ASA) collector] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_na_cdot.html[NetApp ONTAP Select ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_solidfire.html[NetApp SolidFire All-Flash Array ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_na_storagegrid.html[NetApp StorageGRID ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_netstat.html[Netstat ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_nginx.html[Nginx ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_node.html[Node ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_nutanix.html[Nutanix NX Series ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_openzfs.html[OpenZFS ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_oracle_zfs.html[Oracle ZFS Storage Appliance ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_postgresql.html[PostgreSQL ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_puppetagent.html[Puppet Agent ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_pure_flasharray.html[Pure Storage FlashArray ] |Infrastructure 
//| link:task_dc_pure_flashblade.html[Pure Storage FlashBlade ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_dc_redhat_virtualization.html[Red Hat Virtualization ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_redis.html[Redis ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_rethinkdb.html[RethinkDB ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_agent.html#rhel-and-centos[RHEL & CentOS ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_rubrik_cdm.html[Rubrik CDM Storage ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_agent.html#ubuntu-and-debian[Ubuntu & Debian ] |Service 
| link:task_dc_vast_datastore.html[VAST DataStore] |Infrastructure
| link:task_dc_vmware.html[VMware vSphere ] |Infrastructure 
| link:task_config_telegraf_agent.html#windows[Windows ] |Service 
| link:task_config_telegraf_zookeeper.html[ZooKeeper ] |Service 
|===
