task_create_webhook.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task_create_webhook.html
keywords: webhook, notification, slack, integration
summary: Create monitors to alert on performance or inventory thresholds
---

= Notification using Webhooks
:hardbreaks:

:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Webhooks allow users to send alert notifications to various applications using a customized webhook channel.

Many commercial applications support webhooks as a standard input interface, for example: Slack, PagerDuty, Teams, and Discord all support webhooks. By supporting a generic, customizable webhook channel, Data Infrastructure Insights can support many of these delivery channels. Information on webhooks can be found on these application websites. For example, Slack provides link:https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks[this useful guide].

You can create multiple webhook channels, each channel targeted for a different purpose; separate applications, different recipients, etc.  

The webhook channel instance is comprised of the following elements:

|===
|Name|Unique name
|URL|Webhook target URL, including the _http://_ or _https://_ prefix along with the url params
|Method	|GET, POST - Default is POST
|Custom Header|Specify any custom header lines here
|Message Body|Put the body of your message here
|Default Alert Parameters|Lists the default parameters for the webhook
|Custom Parameters and Secrets|Custom parameters and secrets allow you to add unique parameters and secure elements such as passwords
|===

== Creating a Webhook

To create a Data Infrastructure Insights webhook, go to *Admin > Notifications* and select the *Webhooks* tab.

The following image shows an example webhook configured for Slack:

image:Webhook_Example_Slack.png[Webhook Example]

Enter appropriate information for each of the fields, and click "Save" when complete. 

You can also click the "Test Webhook" button to test the connection. Note that this will send the "Message Body" (without substitutions) to the defined URL according to the selected Method. 

Data Infrastructure Insights webhooks comprise a number of default parameters. Additionally, you can create your own custom parameters or secrets. 

image:Webhook_Default_Parameters.png[Data Infrastructure Insights Default Webhook Parameters]




=== Parameters: What are they and how do I use them?

Alert Parameters are dynamic values populated per alert. For example, the _%%TriggeredOn%%_ parameter will be replaced with the object on which the alert was triggered.

Note that in this section, substitutions are _not_ performed when clicking the "Test Webhook" button; the button sends a payload that shows the _%%_ substitutions but does not replace them with data.




=== Custom Parameters and Secrets

In this section you can add any custom parameters and/or secrets you wish. For security reasons, if a secret is defined only the webhook creator can modify this webhook channel. It is read-only for others. You can use secrets in URL/Headers as _%%<secret_name>%%_.






=== Webhooks List Page

On the Webhooks list page, displayed are the Name, Created By, Created On, Status, Secure, and Last Reported fields.




== Choosing Webhook Notification in a Monitor

To choose the webhook notification in a link:task_create_monitor.html[monitor], go to *Alerts > Manage Monitors* and select the desired monitor, or add a new monitor. In the _Set up team notifications_ section, choose _Webhook_ as the delivery method. Select the alert levels (Critical, Warning, Resolved), then choose the desired webhook.

image:Webhook_Monitor_Notify.png[Webhook Monitor Notification]

//To be published after Feb 5:
//Select the alert levels (Critical, Warning, Resolved), then choose the desired webhook(s). You can choose multiple webhooks for each alert, and you can choose the same webhook for different alerts.

//image:Webhook_Monitor_Notifications.png[Webhook Monitor Notifications]





== Webhook Examples:

Webhooks for link:task_webhook_example_slack.html[Slack]
Webhooks for link:task_webhook_example_pagerduty.html[PagerDuty]
Webhooks for link:task_webhook_example_teams.html[Teams]
Webhooks for link:task_webhook_example_discord.html[Discord]

Commit message:

add note about using parameters in Webhook and Monitors doc pages

task_create_webhook.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task_create_webhook.html
keywords: webhook, notification, slack, integration
summary: Create monitors to alert on performance or inventory thresholds
---

= Notification using Webhooks
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Webhooks allow users to send alert notifications to various applications using a customized webhook channel.

Many commercial applications support webhooks as a standard input interface, for example: Slack, PagerDuty, Teams, and Discord all support webhooks. By supporting a generic, customizable webhook channel, Data Infrastructure Insights can support many of these delivery channels. Information on webhooks can be found on these application websites. For example, Slack provides link:https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks[this useful guide].

You can create multiple webhook channels, each channel targeted for a different purpose; separate applications, different recipients, etc.  

The webhook channel instance is comprised of the following elements:

|===
|Name|Unique name
|URL|Webhook target URL, including the _http://_ or _https://_ prefix along with the url params
|Method	|GET, POST - Default is POST
|Custom Header|Specify any custom header lines here
|Message Body|Put the body of your message here
|Default Alert Parameters|Lists the default parameters for the webhook
|Custom Parameters and Secrets|Custom parameters and secrets allow you to add unique parameters and secure elements such as passwords
|===

== Creating a Webhook

To create a Data Infrastructure Insights webhook, go to *Admin > Notifications* and select the *Webhooks* tab.

The following image shows an example webhook configured for Slack:

image:Webhook_Example_Slack.png[Webhook Example]

Enter appropriate information for each of the fields, and click "Save" when complete. 

You can also click the "Test Webhook" button to test the connection. Note that this will send the "Message Body" (without substitutions) to the defined URL according to the selected Method. 

Data Infrastructure Insights webhooks comprise a number of default parameters. Additionally, you can create your own custom parameters or secrets. 

image:Webhook_Default_Parameters.png[Data Infrastructure Insights Default Webhook Parameters]




=== Parameters: What are they and how do I use them?

Alert Parameters are dynamic values populated per alert. For example, the _%%TriggeredOn%%_ parameter will be replaced with the object on which the alert was triggered.

You can add any object attribute (for example, storage name) as a parameter to a webhook. For example, you can set parameters for volume name and storage name in a webhook description like: "High Latency for Volume: _%%relatedObject.volume.name%%_, Storage: _%%relatedObject.storage.name%%_".

Note that in this section, substitutions are _not_ performed when clicking the "Test Webhook" button; the button sends a payload that shows the _%%_ substitutions but does not replace them with data.




=== Custom Parameters and Secrets

In this section you can add any custom parameters and/or secrets you wish. For security reasons, if a secret is defined only the webhook creator can modify this webhook channel. It is read-only for others. You can use secrets in URL/Headers as _%%<secret_name>%%_.








=== Webhooks List Page

On the Webhooks list page, displayed are the Name, Created By, Created On, Status, Secure, and Last Reported fields.




== Choosing Webhook Notification in a Monitor

To choose the webhook notification in a link:task_create_monitor.html[monitor], go to *Alerts > Manage Monitors* and select the desired monitor, or add a new monitor. In the _Set up team notifications_ section, choose _Webhook_ as the delivery method. Select the alert levels (Critical, Warning, Resolved), then choose the desired webhook.

image:Webhook_Monitor_Notify.png[Webhook Monitor Notification]

//To be published after Feb 5:
//Select the alert levels (Critical, Warning, Resolved), then choose the desired webhook(s). You can choose multiple webhooks for each alert, and you can choose the same webhook for different alerts.

//image:Webhook_Monitor_Notifications.png[Webhook Monitor Notifications]





== Webhook Examples:

Webhooks for link:task_webhook_example_slack.html[Slack]
Webhooks for link:task_webhook_example_pagerduty.html[PagerDuty]
Webhooks for link:task_webhook_example_teams.html[Teams]
Webhooks for link:task_webhook_example_discord.html[Discord]
