task_cloud_insights_onboarding_1.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task_cloud_insights_onboarding_1.html
summary: Signing up for Data Infrastructure Insights and creating your tenant.
keywords: onboarding, new user
---

= Data Infrastructure Insights Onboarding
:hardbreaks:

:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]

Before you can start working with Data Infrastructure Insights, you must sign up on the *NetApp BlueXP* portal. If you already have a NetApp BlueXP login, you can start a free trial of Data Infrastructure Insights with a few quick steps.


toc:[]

== Creating your NetApp BlueXP account

To get started with NetApp's cloud services, go to link:https://bluexp.netapp.com/[*NetApp BlueXP*^] and click *Get Started*.

* If you have not already signed up, select *Sign Up*
* Enter a valid business email address and choose a password.
* Enter your company name, and your full name.
* Accept the terms and conditions and select *Continue*.
* BlueXP will walk you through getting started.

=== What if I already have a NetApp BlueXP login?

Once you have a NetApp BlueXP account, simply choose *Log In* on the link:https://bluexp.netapp.com/[*NetApp BlueXP*^] portal page.

Enter your email address and password. You will then be taken to NetApp's cloud offerings page.

Select Data Infrastructure Insights.

image:BlueXP_CloudInsights.png[Data Infrastructure Insights free trial on BlueXP]

== Starting your Data Infrastructure Insights free trial

If this is your first time logging in to Data Infrastructure Insights, under the Data Infrastructure Insights offering, click on *Start Free Trial*. Data Infrastructure Insights will walk you through creating your company's tenant, including selecting the region where you want your tenant to reside.

image:trial_region_selector.png[Selecting the region in which to host your Data Infrastructure Insights tenant]

Once the creation of your tenant is complete, you can use your BlueXP credentials to log in and start your free, 30-day trial of Data Infrastructure Insights. During this trial you can explore the features that Data Infrastructure Insights has to offer. 

During the free trial, you can link:concept_subscribing_to_cloud_insights.html[start your subscription] to Data Infrastructure Insights at any time. When you are subscribed, You can use the Data Infrastructure Insights features based on your current subscription.


== Sign in and go

Once your tenant has been created, at any time you can simply log in to the NetApp BlueXP Portal and click *Go to Data Infrastructure Insights*. You will be taken directly to your Data Infrastructure Insights tenant.

You can also open a browser directly to your Data Infrastructure Insights tenant URL, for example:

 \https://<tenant-prefix>.c01.cloudinsights.netapp.com/

The URL will also be included in each user's invitation email for simple access and bookmarking. If the user is not already logged in to BlueXP, they will be prompted to log in.

NOTE: New users must still sign up for access to BlueXP before they can access their tenant URL.

The first time you log in to a new tenant, you will be guided through setting up to link:task_getting_started_with_cloud_insights.html[*begin gathering data*].

== Logging Out


To log out of Data Infrastructure Insights, click your *User Name* and select *Log Out*. You will be taken back to the BlueXP sign in screen.

NOTE: Logging out of Data Infrastructure Insights logs you out of BlueXP. You will also be logged out of other NetApp Cloud services that use the BlueXP sign-in.


=== Inactivity Timeout

By default, BlueXP will log a user out if there is no activity for six hours (360 minutes). Regardless of activity, users will be logged out after seven days.

Commit message:

update onboarding page to update instructions

task_cloud_insights_onboarding_1.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task_cloud_insights_onboarding_1.html
summary: Signing up for Data Infrastructure Insights and creating your tenant.
keywords: onboarding, new user
---

= Data Infrastructure Insights Onboarding
:hardbreaks:

:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]

Before you can start working with Data Infrastructure Insights, you must sign up on the *NetApp BlueXP* portal. If you already have a NetApp BlueXP login, you can start a free trial of Data Infrastructure Insights with a few quick steps.


toc:[]

== Creating your NetApp BlueXP account

To get started with NetApp's cloud services, go to link:https://bluexp.netapp.com/[*NetApp BlueXP*^] and click *Get Started*.

* If you have not already signed up, select *Sign Up*
* Enter a valid business email address and choose a password.
* Enter your company name, and your full name.
* Accept the terms and conditions and select *Continue*.
* BlueXP will walk you through getting started.

=== What if I already have a NetApp BlueXP login?

Once you have a NetApp BlueXP account, simply choose *Log In* on the link:https://bluexp.netapp.com/[*NetApp BlueXP*^] portal page.

Enter your email address and password. You will then be taken to NetApp's cloud offerings page.

Navigate to *Analysis and Control > Observability* to learn about Data Infrastructure Insights and/or request a demo.

//image:BlueXP_CloudInsights.png[Data Infrastructure Insights free trial on BlueXP]


== Starting your Data Infrastructure Insights free trial

If this is your first time logging in to Data Infrastructure Insights, read about everything Data Infrastructure Insights has to offer, and when you are _Ready to Get Started_, click on *Request Trial* and fill out your information. 

As part of your trial tenant set up, you will choose the region in which to host your tenant, and whether you want your tenant on AWS or Azure.

Once the creation of your tenant is complete, Use your BlueXP credentials to log in and start your free, 30-day trial of Data Infrastructure Insights. During this trial you can explore the features that Data Infrastructure Insights has to offer. 

During the free trial, you can link:concept_subscribing_to_cloud_insights.html[start your subscription] to Data Infrastructure Insights at any time. When you are subscribed, You can use the Data Infrastructure Insights features based on your current subscription.


== Sign in and go

Once your tenant has been created, at any time you can simply log in to the NetApp BlueXP Portal and navigate to the link:https://services.cloud.netapp.com[Cloud Services] page and select *Go to Data Infrastructure Insights*.

You can also open a browser directly to your Data Infrastructure Insights tenant URL, for example:

 \https://<tenant-prefix>.c01.cloudinsights.netapp.com/

The URL will also be included in each user's invitation email for simple access and bookmarking. If the user is not already logged in to BlueXP, they will be prompted to log in.

NOTE: New users must still sign up for access to BlueXP before they can access their tenant URL.

The first time you log in to a new tenant, you will be guided through setting up to link:task_getting_started_with_cloud_insights.html[*begin gathering data*].

== Logging Out


To log out of Data Infrastructure Insights, click your *User Name* and select *Log Out*. You will be taken back to the BlueXP sign in screen.

NOTE: Logging out of Data Infrastructure Insights logs you out of BlueXP. You will also be logged out of other NetApp Cloud services that use the BlueXP sign-in.


=== Inactivity Timeout

By default, BlueXP will log a user out if there is no activity for six hours (360 minutes). Regardless of activity, users will be logged out after seven days.
