task_dc_na_storagegrid.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task_dc_na_storagegrid.html
summary: Configure NetApp StorageGRID data collector
keywords: data collector, queries, create, storagegrid
---

= NetApp StorageGRID data collector
:hardbreaks:

:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
The NetApp StorageGRID data collector supports inventory and performance collection from StorageGRID configurations. 

NOTE: StorageGRID is metered at a different Raw TB to Managed Unit rate. Every 40 TB of unformatted StorageGRID capacity is charged as 1 link:concept_subscribing_to_cloud_insights.html#pricing[Managed Unit (MU)].

== Terminology

Data Infrastructure Insights acquires the following inventory information from the NetApp StorageGRID collector. For each asset type acquired, the most common terminology used for this asset is shown. When viewing or troubleshooting this data collector, keep the following terminology in mind:

[cols=2*, options="header", cols"50,50"]
|===
|Vendor/Model Term | Data Infrastructure Insights Term
|StorageGRID|Storage
|Node|Node
|Tenant|Storage Pool
|Bucket|Internal Volume
|===
== Requirements

The following are requirements for configuring this data source:

* StorageGRID Host IP Address
* A username and password for a user that has had the Metric Query and Tenant Access roles assigned
* Port 443

== Configuration

[cols=2*, options="header", cols"50,50"]
|===
|Field|Description
|StorageGRID Host IP Address |Management Virtual IP address of the StorageGRID appliance
|User Name |Name used to log into the StorageGRID appliance
|Password |Password used to log into the StorageGRID appliance
|===

== Advanced configuration

[cols=2*, options="header", cols"50,50"]
|===
|Field|Description
|Inventory Poll Interval (min) |Default is 60 minutes
|performance Poll Interval (sec)|Default is 900 seconds
|===

== Single Sign-On (SSO)

The link:https://docs.netapp.com/sgws-112/index.jsp[StorageGRID] firmware versions have corresponding API versions; 3.0 API and newer versions support single sign-on (SSO) login.
 
|===
|Firmware version |API version |Support single sign on (SSO)
|11.1 |2 |No
|11.2 |3.0 |Yes
|11.5 |3.3 |Yes
|===
           
== Troubleshooting

Additional information on this Data Collector may be found from the link:concept_requesting_support.html[Support] page or in the link:reference_data_collector_support_matrix.html[Data Collector Support Matrix].

Commit message:

add metering disclaimer at top of page

task_dc_na_storagegrid.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task_dc_na_storagegrid.html
summary: Configure NetApp StorageGRID data collector
keywords: data collector, queries, create, storagegrid
---

= NetApp StorageGRID data collector
:hardbreaks:

:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
The NetApp StorageGRID data collector supports inventory and performance collection from StorageGRID configurations. 

[NOTE] 
====
To provide consistent metering against DII entitlements across all StorageGRID systems regardless of underlying hardware topology and configuration, Data Infrastructure Insights uses the total available capacity (storagegrid_storage_utilization_total_space_bytes), instead of RAW capacity based on physical disk layout.

For customers using the Capacity-based licensing model, StorageGRID is metered as “Object” storage.

For customers using the legacy (MU) licensing model, StorageGRID is metered as secondary storage, at a rate of 40TiB to 1 MU
====

//NOTE: StorageGRID is metered at a different Raw TB to Managed Unit rate. Every 40 TB of unformatted StorageGRID capacity is charged as 1 link:concept_subscribing_to_cloud_insights.html#pricing[Managed Unit (MU)].

== Terminology

Data Infrastructure Insights acquires the following inventory information from the NetApp StorageGRID collector. For each asset type acquired, the most common terminology used for this asset is shown. When viewing or troubleshooting this data collector, keep the following terminology in mind:

[cols=2*, options="header", cols"50,50"]
|===
|Vendor/Model Term | Data Infrastructure Insights Term
|StorageGRID|Storage
|Node|Node
|Tenant|Storage Pool
|Bucket|Internal Volume
|===
== Requirements

The following are requirements for configuring this data source:

* StorageGRID Host IP Address
* A username and password for a user that has had the Metric Query and Tenant Access roles assigned
* Port 443

== Configuration

[cols=2*, options="header", cols"50,50"]
|===
|Field|Description
|StorageGRID Host IP Address |Management Virtual IP address of the StorageGRID appliance
|User Name |Name used to log into the StorageGRID appliance
|Password |Password used to log into the StorageGRID appliance
|===

== Advanced configuration

[cols=2*, options="header", cols"50,50"]
|===
|Field|Description
|Inventory Poll Interval (min) |Default is 60 minutes
|performance Poll Interval (sec)|Default is 900 seconds
|===

== Single Sign-On (SSO)

The link:https://docs.netapp.com/sgws-112/index.jsp[StorageGRID] firmware versions have corresponding API versions; 3.0 API and newer versions support single sign-on (SSO) login.
 
|===
|Firmware version |API version |Support single sign on (SSO)
|11.1 |2 |No
|11.2 |3.0 |Yes
|11.5 |3.3 |Yes
|===
           
== Troubleshooting

Additional information on this Data Collector may be found from the link:concept_requesting_support.html[Support] page or in the link:reference_data_collector_support_matrix.html[Data Collector Support Matrix].
