task_identify_inactive_devices.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task_identify_inactive_devices.html
keywords: inactive, device, 
summary: Identifying inactive devices allows you to chose to delete them or allocate them to an active role. 
---

= Identifying inactive devices
:toc: macro
:hardbreaks:
:toclevels: 1
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Identifying the assets you have and who’s using them is critical to “right-sizing” and freeing up unused infrastructure. You can easily reallocate or decommission underused resources and avoid unnecessary purchases.

Use the following steps to identify inactive assets. 

.Steps

* Navigate to *Explore -> +New Metric Query*.
* Select _Storage_ from the drop down.
* Click the gear and add _isActive_ as a column.
+
Rows showing a Check are active. "X" indicates inactive devices.

////
. In the Cloud Insights menu, click *Queries > New Query*
. In the `Search For` menu, select the asset type you want to query
. Click *+ > Is Active* 
. Click *Any* and change it to *No*
+ 
The system displays a list of inactive assets of the device type you selected.
////

Commit message:

Added navigation as well as instructions for removing inactive devices (issue #2475)

task_identify_inactive_devices.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task_identify_inactive_devices.html
keywords: inactive, device, remove, removing, identify, identifying
summary: Identifying inactive devices allows you to choose to delete them or allocate them to an active role. 
---
= Identifying inactive devices
:hardbreaks:
:toclevels: 1
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Identifying the assets you have and who’s using them is critical to “right-sizing” and freeing up unused infrastructure. You can easily reallocate or decommission underused resources and avoid unnecessary purchases.

Use the following steps to identify inactive assets. 

.Steps

* Navigate to *Observability > Explore -> +New Metric Query*.
* Select _Storage_ from the drop down.
* Click the gear and add _isActive_ as a column.
+
Rows showing a Check are active. "X" indicates inactive devices.


To remove inactive devices, simply select the devices to remove and in the *Bulk Actions* drop-down, select _Delete Inactive Devices_.
